.\" (C) Copyright 2016 Raphaël Halimi <raphael.halimi@gmail.com>

.TH CREATE-RAPH-SHELL-SCRIPT 1 "2016-03-24"

.SH NAME
create-raph-shell-script - program to create a shell script stub which uses
raph-shell-functions

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcreate-raph-shell-script\fR
[\fB-vdh\fR]
[\fB-f\fR \fIFULL_NAME\fR]
[\fB-e\fR \fIEMAIL_ADDRESS\fR]
\fINAME\fR
[\fIDESCRIPTION\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcreate-raph-shell-script\fR is a program to automatically create a shell
script stub (and its associated manpages), which uses the
\fBraph-shell-functions\fR shell library.

.SH OPTIONS
Options must be specified before arguments.
.TP
.BI -v
Enables verbose mode.
.TP
.BI -d
Enables debug mode.
.TP
.BI -f " FULL_NAME"
Your full name.
.TP
.BI -e " EMAIL_ADDRESS"
Your e-mail address.
.TP
.BI -h
Show summary of options.

.SH ARGUMENTS
The first argument, \fINAME\fR, is mandatory. It's the name (with optional
path) of the script you want to create.
.PP
The second argument, \fIDESCRIPTION\fR, is optional. It's a small description
of your script.

.SH FILES
A system-wide \fI/etc/create-raph-shell-script.conf\fR and a per-user
\fI~/.create-raph-shell-script.conf\fR are parsed to set default variables. See
the \fBcreate-raph-shell-script.conf\fR(5) manpage for details.

.SH NOTES
\fBcreate-raph-shell-script\fR will abort if a file it tries to create already exists.
.PP
It will also refuse to create a script with spaces in its name (this would mess
up the manpages); spaces are allowed in the path, though.

.SH EXAMPLE
Create a script called \fBfoo\fR in directory "~/My Scripts", with John Doe as
a name and jdoe@bar.com as e-mail address:
.PP
.RS
create-raph-shell-script -f "John Doe" -e jdoe@bar.com ~/My\\ Scripts/foo
.RE
.PP
This will create three files: a shell script stub in \fI/tmp/foo\fR, a manpage
stub for the script in \fI/tmp/foo.1\fR, and a manpage stub for a config file
in \fI/tmp/foo.conf.5\fR.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR create-raph-shell-script.conf (5).
