.\" (C) Copyright 2016 Raphaël Halimi <raphael.halimi@gmail.com>

.TH RAPH-SHELL-FUNCTIONS 3 "2016-03-23"

.SH NAME
raph-shell-functions - collection of shell functions commonly used in scripts

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B . /lib/raph-shell-functions

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBraph-shell-functions\fR is a collection of functions commonly used in shell
scripts. It's meant to be sourced at the beginning of a shell script, so that
its functions can be called when needed.

.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
.B root_only
Exits with an error if the script is not run as root. Generally you want to call
this function at the very beginning of the script. 
.TP
.B lock_script	
Locks the script, ensuring only one instance is run at a time. You want to call
this function at the beginning of your script if it must not be run more than
once simultaneously.
.TP
.B unlock_script
Unlocks the script. It's automatically called when the script exits (see
\fINOTES\fR).
.TP
.B enable_verbose
Enables the verbose mode. Normally you want to call it during options
processing.
.TP
.B enable_debug
Enables the debug mode (implies verbose mode). Normally you want to call it
during options processing.
.TP
.BI print_verbose " MESSAGE"
Prints MESSAGE on STDOUT only if the VERBOSE variable is equal to 1. It
accepts one or more strings as argument(s); each string will be displayed on a
serparate line.
.TP
.BI print_debug " MESSAGE"
Prints MESSAGE on STDOUT with the [DEBUG] prefix, and only if the DEBUG
variable is equal to 1. It accepts one or more strings as argument(s); each
string will be displayed on a serparate line.
.TP
.BI print_error " MESSAGE"
Prints MESSAGE on STDERR with the [ERROR] prefix. It accepts one or more
strings as argument(s); each string will be displayed on a serparate line.
.TP
\fBprint_option\fR \fISWITCH\fR \fIDESCRIPTION\fR
Helper to display options in the help message. It accepts exactly two strings
as arguments: the switch (e.g. "-v") and its description (e.g. "Verbose mode").
.TP
\fBdelete_files\fR \fIFILES\fR...
Deletes one or more files, with some checks and feedback in verbose mode. It
accepts one or more filenames as arguments. Don't forget to enclose them is
double-quotes if they contain spaces.
.TP
\fBdie [\fIMESSAGE\fR]
Prints \fIMESSAGE\fR and exits with a return code of 1. It's also automatically
called when the script receives one of the INT, PIPE or TERM signals (see
\fINOTES\fR). It accepts exactly one string as argument, or none, in which case
a default message will be displayed.

.SH CONFORMING TO
Efforts are made to make this library POSIX-compliant, so that the scripts using
it can be run with either bash or dash, but it may not be perfect.

.SH NOTES
Exiting the script, whether by using the \fBexit\fR builtin or simply by
reaching the end of the script, will trigger a hidden function called
\fBquit\fR.
.PP
By default this function will only unlock the script. If you need to do other
things (like removing temporary files), you must write a function called
\fBon_exit\fR in your script, for example:
.PP
.nf
.RS
on_exit () {
  # Do some cleanup
  print_verbose "Cleaning up..."
  delete_files "$TEMP_FILE" "$OTHER_TEMP_FILE"
  # Do something else
  ...
}
.RE
.fi
.PP
In addition, the three signals \fBSIGINT\fR (interrupt by keyboard, e.g.
pressing Ctrl-C), \fBSIGPIPE\fR (broken pipe) and \fBSIGTERM\fR (terminate,
e.g.  with a \fBkill\fR command) are trapped, and will trigger the \fBdie\fR
function, which will itself trigger the \fBquit\fR function. It should make
your scripts more resilient to errors by automatically cleaning up any
leftovers in case something goes wrong.

.SH EXAMPLE
TODO: Add an example for each function
.PP
Example of a \fBprint_usage\fR function:
.PP
.nf
.RS
# Print usage
print_usage () {
  printf "Usage: %s [OPTIONS] [ARGS...]\\n" "`basename $0`"
  printf "\\nOPTIONS:\\n"
  print_option "-v" "Verbose mode"
  print_option "-d" "Debug mode (implies -v)"
  print_option "-h" "Print this help message"
}
.RE
.fi
.PP
Example of options processing:
.PP
.nf
.RS
# Options processing
while getopts "vdh" OPTION ; do
  case $OPTION in
    v) enable_verbose ;;
    d) enable_debug ;;
    h) print_usage ; exit 0 ;;
    *) print_usage ; exit 1 ;;
  esac
done ; shift $(($OPTIND-1))
.RE
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dash (1),
.BR bash (1).
