.\" (C) Copyright 2024 Raphaël Halimi <raphael.halimi@gmail.com>

.TH SHELL-SCRIPT-HELPER-TEMPLATE 1 "2024-08-09"

.SH NAME
shell-script-helper-template - program to create a shell script stub which uses
shell-script-helper

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shell-script-helper-template
.RI [ option ]...
.I NAME
.RI [ DESCRIPTION ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBshell-script-helper-template\fR is a program to automatically create a shell
script stub (and its associated manpages), which uses the
\fBshell-script-helper\fR shell library.

.SH OPTIONS
Options must be specified before arguments.
.TP
.BI -f " FULL_NAME"
Your full name.
.TP
.BI -e " EMAIL_ADDRESS"
Your e-mail address.
.TP
.BI -v
Enables verbose mode.
.TP
.BI -d
Enables debug mode.
.TP
.BI -h
Show summary of options.

.SH ARGUMENTS
The first argument, \fINAME\fR, is mandatory. It's the name (with optional
path) of the script you want to create.
.PP
The second argument, \fIDESCRIPTION\fR, is optional. It's a small description
of your script.

.SH FILES
A system-wide \fI/etc/shell-script-helper-template.conf\fR and a per-user
\fI~/.shell-script-helper-template.conf\fR are parsed to set default variables.
See the \fBshell-script-helper-template.conf\fR(5) manpage for details.

.SH NOTES
\fBshell-script-helper-template\fR will abort if a file it tries to create
already exists.
.PP
Spaces in a script name are not allowed, they will be replaced by hyphens;
but they are allowed in the path, though.

.SH EXAMPLE
Create a script called \fBfoo\fR in directory "~/My Scripts", with John Doe as
a name and jdoe@bar.com as e-mail address:
.PP
.RS
shell-script-helper-template -f "John Doe" -e jdoe@bar.com ~/My\\ Scripts/foo
.RE
.PP
This will create three files: a shell script stub in \fI/tmp/foo\fR, a manpage
stub for the script in \fI/tmp/foo.1\fR, and a manpage stub for a config file
in \fI/tmp/foo.conf.5\fR.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR shell-script-helper-template.conf (5).
